morality matters most when it's
inconvenient and I'm making this video
primarily just to highlight that theme
which has come up my youtube channel
before secondarily it relates again to
this controversy with a natural vegan
where I'm speaking in support of her and
thirdly it relates to an issue in
political science that I've never spoken
to the channel before I haven't heard
other people speak about that maybe
worth mentioning in itself for vegans
who see this video as a disclaimer this
controversy the fact that I dared to
speak in support of a natural vegan on
this cancer controversy cost me money I
had patreon supporters quit and cancel
the donations over it it cost me money
and I'll be blown with you I need that
money
currently patreon is the only income in
the world and even after I start this
job in China
I've now apparently got a job lined up
to start a few months in the future that
job only pays 750 US dollars a month so
if I can make $300 at a patreon that'll
be a huge percentage of my income and
it's a massive reward for me to take the
time to come on YouTube and talk about
veganism talk about my life etc etc so
the impact for me is very real reality
is often inconvenient being vegan is
inconvenient if you're only vegan when
it's convenient for you then you're not
vegan if you're only vegan except when
there were no vegan options available if
you're if you're vegan but not on a bus
trip if you're vegan but only when
you're in California not when you go to
Arizona where it's maybe harder to find
vegan options then you're not vegan you
know either you're vegan and when it's
inconvenient when it really costs you
something and time and money and energy
in suffering you got to go hungry for a
night or you're not vegan
right um either your moral when it
matters either you strike when the
iron's hot or you don't so I mean I know
this now for my channel this is a kind
of a ridiculous example it's
unbelievable who would have thought that
it would be a risky I mean if you've
seen the video it's a really tame
I've inoffensive video where I spoke in
support of a natural vegan if I
criticized
natural vegan that's an obvious risk but
there was an element of risk and it has
cost me it's at a price that I dared to
support unnatural being on this issue
and a video I recognize that she took a
risk and you know alienated a lot of
viewers and a lot of people hated her
for daring to say what she said but I
think she did the right thing I think
she did the right thing for the right
reasons and I applauded her at the time
for taking that risk and I applauded her
again now for taking the risk in
politics you have to strike while
they're inside this is sort of separate
from the issue of immorality that I
guess we'll come back to we've had a
long series of police shootings in the
United States for example Tamir rice
shot dead by police in general the
families of the person shot dead have
cooperated with activists who wanted to
take the particular example and turn it
into a political cause turn it into a
political football
they don't always sometimes people die
in tragic circumstances and the families
of the deceased do not want that type of
exposure they do not want the name of
their loved one to be in the press they
do not want their tragedy to be
exploited as a political cause issue
football they don't want their name
dragged into politics now it's very easy
to imagine those examples if you've been
reading newspapers all your life you'll
remember examples from wherever it is
you're living there normally local news
the normally not national news what if
there's a family similar hypotheticals
out with families similar to Tamir
Rice's family as family of someone who
shot that but they decide they don't
want that kind of exposure they don't
want this to become a political issue
they don't want to make any statement
about the police or civil rights or the
advancement of african-american people
or legal reforms to police procedure or
police wearing cameras they don't want
to touch it and they don't want their
lives to be impacted by this type of
activism hypothetical example let's say
hypothetically also they're accepting
donations they're raising money in the
wake of this tragedy of their family
members been shot dead by police
if someone comes out and criticizes them
or criticizes the police if a group of
activists decide to make this the focus
of a civil rights campaign of a campaign
to raise the standards of you know
conduct of police community policing
ethics etc who's in the wrong this is
the way politics works it happens we're
off with labor issues also often there's
a particular employee who has a conflict
with the employer and they really don't
want it to become a political issue but
the union gets involved in the
newspapers get involved and somehow it
becomes the focus of you know a safety
issue or a labor rights issue some kind
of disability that becomes part of a
larger social struggle and either the
the person in the dispute they may not
want that or their family doesn't want
it again the family the deceased don't
want it but that this is actually an
intrinsic important feature of politics
is that it's not up for you to decide
it's not up for the family of Tamir rice
to decide how important that issue is
that issue has public and social
importance much larger than and much
greater than the per tissue a particular
person who is killed or that is also in
itself tremendously important I mean so
the issue of a false and misleading
cancer treatment is much more important
than any one person subscribing to it
right it's much more important than one
person dying precisely because it
represents a threat to the lives of many
people it's an ethical issue and a
scientific issue etc said I don't need
to spell this out for you guys but it is
something much larger than the
particular example being dealt with so
the response to this and it's the most
rational responsive at in terms of the
reasons people gave me for why they quit
my patient Channel why they were so
offended that I dared to say this the
most rational response of Gaudin was the
how dare you directed to a natural vegan
how dare she
take this particular example of one
person suffering of one person's cancer
and turn it into a political issue an
issue for this product debate
but that's exactly what politics always
consists of how dare you take one person
being shot by the police and make it
into a question of civil rights how dare
you take the issue of one person being
maimed on the job being injured at the
factory and then trying to get
compensation and turn that into a
political issue that's what we do in
politics period always you have to
strike well there and so you have to
take that particular example and show
how it Ellis traits a legal reform
you're pursuing a constitutional issue
of civil rights whatever the issues a
health and safety regulation issue you
have to that so unnatural vegan is a
hundred percent right in doing what she
did even though she has been public she
has been punished in the court of public
opinion
coming back to my other point that you
guys have heard me say before morality
matters when it's inconvenient for you
there were so many people who stood up
because it was the right thing to do
when it mattered when during Ryder
dragged my right name through the mud
when he defamed me when he threatened
with violence there were people who
stood up and said no this is not what
veganism is supposed to be about right
and there are other people who waited
there are other people who didn't want
to interrupt their vacations in
Chiangmai there are other people who
just pretended they were indifferent
when they knew what was going on they
weren't even pretending ignorance months
and months went by and then finally you
got a kind of quiet statement on YouTube
that yes what dirty mother did was
immoral or something that's nice
I mean I still appreciate it when people
made their statements of support people
like happy healthy vegan who you know
such a long time later made this very
quiet statement in passing one most
ridiculous was Jeff Nelson from fed
source who insulted me publicly
repeatedly and then made a one-sentence
statement in support of me and you know
opposing during right around this okay
thanks thanks Jeff but of course when it
matters is at the particular time what
eight matters that you stand up and do
the right thing for the right reason
when the conflict is still ongoing when
it can still make a difference when it
still really matter
and here on the Internet
that's kind of easy virtue it's not hard
to do that with a medium like YouTube
because you don't even have to leave
your house you can just sit down in
front of the internet and press a button
and take a stand so this is this is
really easy virtue compared to any other
form of social commentary activism
engagement or what have you
but a natural vegan did the right thing
and working from a particular example
should the right thing well stir by
striking while the iron was hot while
making the video while the fundraiser
was ongoing those are two things she's
most criticized for that she dared to
bring a particular person's name into it
that she made it while the fundraiser
was still ongoing that's what it matters
doesn't matter if you make a video six
months later when it's all over and done
with it matters you know well the issue
is still ongoing and you know morally
with a natural vegan she showed that
she's somebody who cares she cares about
the real issue and there are so many
these people making money out of
veganism on YouTube who don't care so
Izzy Davis who now uses is Edie she was
in Chiangmai with me as I recall I think
she met me for five minutes she knew
what was going on everyone and chain
mining was going on but it was simply
not convenient for her to recognize this
huge issue that had erupted in the
middle of her vacation now you know does
she have to no but it tells me something
about her it tells me something with the
kind of person she is and who she's
gonna be because the basic premise of
morality isn't I'm gonna wait until it's
convenient for me to be a good person
it's I'm gonna be a good person all the
time and I'm gonna build up the strength
of character to cope with those
inconveniences because morality means
facing down constant fear inconvenience
insults innuendo threats etc it means
coping with
you know it means coping with the
immorality of the world around us day
after day after day and developing a
character over time for whom it's
natural to be moral at all times without
even making the decision and I think for
a lot of us veganism itself is the
perfect example because maybe there was
a point early on when you actually felt
tempted you know you're hungry and there
was nothing else to eat whatever the
situation was you're at a bus station or
something and you know it's nothing else
around but then after a certain point
it's become part of your character and
you value that discipline and maybe you
even value that deprivation more than
you would value you know the momentary
gratification the convenience of of
eating well you know for some of us the
difference between truth and fiction or
the difference between science and
pseudoscience you know there are other
moral issues that for us are so
important that we're willing to to take
these other risks to deal with these
other slings and arrows publicly here on
the Internet and really again internet
morality it's it's easy virtue compared
to even getting on the bus and going
down to City Hall and giving a sworn
deposition to government compared to
real activism directly trying to change
the world by lobbying government or
something this is all easy virtue